#### 第23讲  红外遥控器控制

首先安装红外驱动程序 lirc(Linux Infrared Remoter Control)  用来控制红外遥控器的包

即是Linux下的专门控制处理红外遥控信号的程序，包含了各种接口的红外驱动、多个应用程序及LIRC库

```
sudo apt-get install lirc
```

然后编辑 文件 /etc/modules, 添加lirc_rpi gpio_in_pin=23 gpio_out_pin=22

```
sudo nano /etc/modules
后边加入
lirc_dev
lirc_rpi gpio_in_pin=23 gpio_out_pin=22
```

编辑文件 /etc/lirc/hardware.conf

```
LIRCD_ARGS=""
LOAD_MODULES=true
DRIVER="default"
DEVICE="/dev/lirc0"
MODULES="lirc_rpi"
```

复制 lircd.conf 文件到  /home/pi/

复制 lircd.conf 文件到  /etc/lirc/

```
sudo cp lircd.conf /home/pi/
sudo cp lircd.conf /etc/lirc/
```

编辑 /boot/config.txt

找到 # dtoverlay=lirc-rpi  把#去掉， 并修改

```
dtoverlay=lirc-rpi:gpio_in_pin=23, gpio_out_pin=22
```

#### C文件需要下载的库

下载文件sudo apt-get install liblircclient-dev

```
sudo apt-get install liblircclient-dev
```



#### python需要下载的库 python-pylirc

##### python2下环境下下载pip2 

```
sudo apt-get install python-pip
```

##### python2下载方式

```
sudo apt-get install python-pylirc
引入的方式：
import pylirc
```

python3下载方式

```
sudo pip3 install pylirc2
引入方式：
import lirc
```





重新开启LIRC功能

```
sudo /etc/init.d/lircd stop


sudo /etc/init.d/lircd start
```

开启 lirc0服务

```
sudo lircd -d /dev/lirc0
```

# [Setup IR Remote Control Using LIRC for the Raspberry PI (RPi)](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57437261/setup-ir-remote-control-using-lirc-for-the-raspberry-pi-rpi)



This answer assumes the RPi is running raspbian (version Buster Jun 2019). Also a working knowledge of the terminal, basic commands from the command prompt and editing text files is assumed.

**Step 1: Install lirc**

1) Open terminal window and install LIRC. Be forewarned that this will likely raise an error "Failed to start Flexible IR remote input/output application support" as the installed files now have .dist appended and the suffix must be removed as noted below. Not hard but frustrating.

```
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install lirc

```

----DON'T WORRY! as this will likely raise an error "Failed to start Flexible IR remote input/output application support" as the .dist suffix needs to be deleted from lirc_options.conf. Just copy the file as shown.

```
$ sudo cp /etc/lirc/lirc_options.conf.dist /etc/lirc/lirc_options.conf

```

2) Reinstall lirc now that the lirc_options.conf file has been renamed

```
$ sudo apt-get install lirc

```

**Step 2: Edit lirc_options.conf**

Edit /etc/lirc/lirc_options.conf as follows by changing these two lines:

```
:
:
driver = default
device = /dev/lirc0
:
:

```

**Step 3: Perform copy to remove .dist suffix from lircd.conf.dist**

Remove suffix .dist from /etc/lirc/lircd.conf.dist

```
$ sudo cp /etc/lirc/lircd.conf.dist /etc/lirc/lircd.conf

```

**Step 4: Edit config.txt**

Edit /boot/config.txt by adding one line in the lirc-rpi module section as follows. This example assumes the RPi is 'listening' on BCM Pin 17 for the IR receiver but any RPi IO pin can be used. I have not tried it yet but if you want to send commands from the RPi then add and uncomment the 4th line as shown below to send IR commands on BCM pin 18

```
:
:
:
# Uncomment this to enable the lirc-rpi module
#dtoverlay=lirc-rpi
dtoverlay=gpio-ir,gpio_pin=17
#dtoverlay=gpio-ir-tx,gpio_pin=18
:
:
:

```

**Step 5: Check status and reboot**

1) Stop, start and check status of lircd to ensure there are no errors!

```
$ sudo systemctl stop lircd.service
$ sudo systemctl start lircd.service
$ sudo systemctl status lircd.service

```

2) Reboot

```
$ sudo reboot

```

**Step 6: Test remote**

This step assumes you have have a IR receiver hooked up to your RPi on the pin specified in config.txt.

1) stop LIRCD service and test remote using mode2 command

```
$ sudo systemctl stop lircd.service
$ sudo mode2 -d /dev/lirc0

```

3) Point the remote at the receiver and press some buttons. You should see something LIKE this:

```
:
:
space
pulse
:
:

```

4) Press Ctrl-C to exit

5) Your IR receiver is setup and ready to proceed to Part 2 and be accessed in python